
<div markdown="1" class="bg-info">
<b>The Da Vinci Risk Adjustment Implementation Guide is under development</b>
</div>
### Introduction

The Da Vinci Project member organizations have identified the need of standardizing how risk adjustment coding gaps are communicated between payers and providers. This release of the Implementation Guide (guide) specifies standardized risk adjustment coding gap reports and defines an operation for a Client to query the coding gap reports from a Server for one or more patients. Standardizing the reporting structure helps lessen the burden on the providers in processing the reports so they can more easily address the patients’ care needs. This standardized structure also supports the payer sharing information that they have but the providers may not, such as data from other providers’s claims, lab results, filled prescriptions, etc.

### Preconditions and Assumptions
- A contract for medical services exists between the server and the client requesting the report.
- A risk adjustment model(s) has been defined.
- The Server organization has determined the risk adjustment condition categories and suspect statuses based on the data they have and risk adjustment engine they use. As indicated in Scope, this guide does not define how a Server determines risk adjustment coding gaps shared on this report.
- It is the responsibility of the Server to ensure that the data used in the report is present in a structured, retrievable form.
- The server and the client have agreed upon a process to identify specific patient(s) and exchange the Patient Resource's logical id on the server.
-  Although the exact mechanisms for securing these exchanges are not specified as part of this guide:
    -  Exchanges are limited to mutually agreed upon (i.e., between the Server and Client) patient lists or population.
    -  Systems should use standard authentication and authorization approaches.  The [SMART App Launch] and [SMART backend services] authentication/authorization approach are recommended models.

### Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports

The risk adjustment coding gap reports are generated by a Server’s back end systems such as legacy system, FHIR server, and risk adjustment engine. The [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report], a profile of the [MeasureReport] resource, provides a standardized representation to construct these reports. The [$report] operation defined in this guide can be used by a Client to request risk adjustment coding gap reports of applicable risk adjustment models for one or more patients (a group) from the Server. The [$report] operation requires three input parameters: `periodStart`, `periodEnd`, and `subject`.

The term clinical evaluation period refers to the time period during which the risk adjusting encounters could be conducted and documented with expectations of submissions for risk adjustment purposes. Period start and end parameters are the start and end dates of the clinical evaluation period. The `periodStart` and `periodEnd` dates will be evaluated for any overlaps against the clinical evaluation period (`MeasureReport.period.start` and `MeasureReport.period.end`) of a [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] available on the Server. The `subject` parameter references either a single patient or a group of patients (as specified in the [Patient Group] profile).

The [$report] operation returns a [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle] based on the input (IN) parameters if matching risk adjustment coding gap reports were found on the Server for a patient. This bundle is a FHIR collection bundle, which must contain a patient entry and zero or more entries of risk adjustment coding gap reports. The [$report] operation also defines another output (OUT) parameter, `OperationOutcome`, to address scenarios when the `subject` provided is invalid. Detailed documentation and conformance statements are listed on [$report].

Each [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] is for a single patient and a version specific risk adjustment model. If the Server's risk adjustment engine runs multiple risk adjustment models including different versions of the same model, then there will be multiple risk adjustment coding gap reports for a patient. For example, if a risk adjustment engine runs reports using CMS-HCC v25, CMS-HCC v24, and Rx-HCC v5, there will be three separate risk adjustment coding gap reports for a patient for each of the three version specific models. The risk adjustment model information is specified in the [Risk Adjustment Measure] profile. The `measure` element of the [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] references the [Risk Adjustment Model Measure].

---
This report is a profile on a FHIR MeasureReport.  Each Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report is for a single patient and a single Risk Adjustment Model.  This profile allows for communication of additional information that is not in the base MeasureReport resource.  This includes:
- the pertinent Risk Adjustment code(s) such as an HCC
- the historic diagnosis if represent
- the suspect type (historic/suspected)
- the evidence status (confirmed/non-confirmed/Pending)
- the evidence status dates
- and the Clinical Data Collection Deadline

Included with the Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report is the ability to share the data the server has on file as Supporting Evidence for the Risk Adjustment code on the report.  This is accomplished via the evaluatedResource element. The Resources specified here can include any of the US Core Resources and are expected to be things like encounters, lab results, medications, etc.  An extension (ra-groupReference) has been added to this element and  will indicate which Risk Adjustment Code(s) that a a specific Resource supports.  All Resources referenced by the evaluatedResource element SHALL be returned in the [$report] Bundle

Multiple reports can be generated for a single patient if more than one Risk Adjustment Model applies.  Also if a group of patients are specified as an input to the operation, one Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report will be returned for each patient for each Risk Adjustment Model that applies.  For example, if you submit a Patient Group as input to the [$report] and three patients are in the group where two Risk Adjustment Model applies to all three and all three have Risk Adjustment Codes that apply (1-many), you will get back six Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports.

The	[Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile] is used in the MeasureReport.measure.  The Measure Resource profiled here allows specification of a specific Risk Model in the Measure.identifier, the version Measure.version as well as the name in Measure.name and title, Measure.title.


### Default Profiles

The following resources are used in the Gaps in Care Reporting Scenario:

|Resource Type|Profile Name|Link to Profile|
|---|---|---|
|Group|Patient Group Profile|[Patient Group Profile]|
|Measure|Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile|[Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile]|
|MeasureReport|Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Profile|[Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Profile]|

### Risk Adjustment Coding Gaps Reporting

Below is an example of how a requester might receive a Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report today.  This is for Clinical Evaluation Period January 1st to December 31st of 2021.  The report was run on May 1st and shows 3 Hierarchical Condition Codes based on CMS HCC v24 risk model.  The first HCC was confirmed by a diagnosis on a claim from April 1, 2021. The second is a historic diagnosis of obesity from 2020 that has not been confirmed in 2021.  The last HCC is suspected because of lab results they server has from December of 2020.

{% include img-portrait.html img="report-risk-adjustment.png" caption = "Figure 3-2 Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report (example)" %}

Figure 3-3 provides a graphical view of how these resources are related to the report above.  The main resource is the [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Profile].  This profile first references a [Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile] which is how we indicate which risk model the report is based on.  The Patient(US Core Patient) as well as the Organization(US Core Organization) that generated the Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report are referenced.  

Each Hierarchical Condition Code is represented by a Group within the report.  You will notice that each Group has supporting evidence of the Encounter.  Additionally, you will see resources on the right of the report that support the specific HCC code.  

For the first group, HCC 189, it points to an historic diagnosis of Acquired absence of right leg below knee which was received as part of the April 1st, 2021 claim. This makes that HCC code confirmed.  

The second group, HCC 019, historic diagnosis points to a Condition of Morbid Obesity from a prior year.  Since this was not included on the April claim, it is non-confirmed.

The last group contains a suspected HCC code of 022.  The supporting evidence that points to this Group are two observations (lab results), from December of 2020; a urine glucose of 3+ and an Hemaglobin A1C.  Since this is only a suspected gap, it is also non-confirmed.

{% include img-portrait.html img="report-risk-adjustment-resource-graph.png" caption = "Figure 3-3 Resource Graph for Risk Adjustment Report" %}


### Requesting Risk Adjustment Coding Gap reports

To facilitate a client requesting Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports, an operation ([$report]) has been defined in this Implementation Guide.  The input parameters are a from/to date to align with the clinical evaluation period and a subject.  The subject can reference a Patient.id (Patient/id123) or a reference to a Risk Adjustment [Patient Group Profile] (Group/gr345) as defined in this IG.  All three parameters are required.  The patient resource returned with the report must conform to the US Core Patient Profile.  Note that the reference is to the Patient logical id (Patient.id) on the server.  As noted above, it is a pre-assumption that getting the logical id for the patient has been done using a method agreed upon between the organization acting as the server and organization acting as the client.

The operation will return a bundle of the bundle.type "collection" which will include 1 or more Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports and all referenced resources.  For example, if a single patient has 2 Risk Adjustment Models that pertain to them, the bundle will contain two MeasureReport resources ([Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Profile]) and any other resources referenced by the two MeasureReport Resources, such as Patient, Organization (that generated the report), Conditions, Observations, Medications, Measure, etc.

{% include img-portrait.html img="risk-adjustment-coding-gap-report-single-patient.png" caption = "Figure 3-4 Risk Adjustment Reporting Workflow for a Single Patient" %}

#### Construction of the Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports

The Risk Adjustment Coding Gaps Report is built on a FHIR MeasureReport Resource.  This profile adds several new elements/extensions that apply only to Risk Adjustment Code Gap reporting.  The first, ra-clinicalDataCollectionDeadline is added to specify to the report receiver/client the deadline, last date, that a client or the organization they represent must submit data to the server's organization.  In the reporter element, an extension was added to allow for the reporter to be a group, extension-reporterGroup.

This profile more specifically defines the period.start and period.end elements to be the Clinical Evaluation Period.  The date element is the date the report was generated.

Of particular note is the .measure element which points to a Measure Resource specifically profiled for Risk Adjustment Coding Gaps, [Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile]. In this profile, the identifier will point to a specific Risk Adjustment Model, like CMS-HCC.  There is an element for version number, such as 24 as well as a name and title.  The other elements in Measure are not currently used by this profile.

The group section of the report repeats for each Hierarchical Condition Code being reported.  To support,  the following new elements/extensions have been added.
- ra-hierarchicalStatus which allow the report to specify 0 to many historic diagnoses that rolls up to a specific risk code, such as HCC.
- ra-suspectType which supports the indication of the suspect type, such as historic or suspected.
- ra-evidenceStatus which is where a payer can indicate status of evidence related to the risk code such as confirmed, non-confirmed and pending.
- ra-evidenceStatusDate which is the last change date of the evidence status.
Each group also contains a code element.  This is a FHIR Codeable Concept that lets you specify the risk code, the coding system and a description.  For example, in HCC the code might be 022, the code system would be XXXXX and the description is Morbid Obesity.

The evaluatedResource element in the report allows you to including supporting evidence by referencing other US Core Resources (such as US Core Laboratory Result Observation Profile, US Core Encounter Profile, and US Core Medication Profile).  The evaluatedResource is not required and can repeat as often as necessary within the report.  Each evaluatedResource allows for you to indicate to which Group the supporting evidence applies.  This is done via an extension called, ra-groupReference.

#### Usage
{:.no_toc}

`GET|[base]`

{% include examplebutton.html example="get-risk-adjustment-coding-gap-report-usage-example" b_title = "Click Here To See Example GET Gaps in Care Report" %}

#### Bulk data  

If Clients are requesting Gaps in Care Reports for many patients/members, they may consider using the FHIR [Asynchronous Request Patterns] for the Bulk Data exchange operation.

`GET|[base]`

{% include examplebutton.html example="get-risk-adjustment-coding-gaps-report-usage-bulk-example" b_title = "Click Here To See Example GET Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Using Bulk Data" %}

Headers:
* `Prefer respond-async`
* `Accept application/fhir+json`

Note that both Prefer and Accept are required. **Prefer** specifies the response is immediate or asynchronous, which SHALL be set to *respond-async*. **Accept** specifies the format of the optional OperationOutcome response to the kick-off request. Any of the Serialization Format Representations are supported. See the base FHIR specification [Asynchronous Request Patterns] for details.

Query Parameters:
* `_outputFormat (string, optional, defaults to application/fhir+ndjson)`

Currently, only *application/fhir+ndjson* is supported.

<br />

#### Attribution


{% include link-list.md %}
