<div class="bg-info" markdown="1">
Content that was on the published version 1.0.0 Guidance page was moved to this page. This page yet needs to be updated for STU2 ballot.
</div>

### Actors
The actors involved in generating and exchanging risk adjustment coding gap reports are defined as the Provider and the Payer for ease of understanding in this IG.  These roles may be played by other entities in your scenario.
- <b>Providers</b> are the actors requesting risk adjustment coding gap reports using the $cc-gaps operation.
- <b>Payors</b> are the actors receiving the request for retrieving the risk adjustment coding gap reports using the $cc-gaps operation.

In the example shown in Figure 2.2-1, a payer acts both as Client and Server in this scenario. The payer (acting as the Client) calls the [$cc-gaps] operation on their Server to query matching Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports based on the parameters provided in the operation, then the payer posts the reports to providers.

As shown in Figure 2.2-2, the Provider calls the [$cc-gaps] operation that is defined in this IG and based on the parameters provided in the operation  returns the Risk Adjustment  to the Client.

{% include img-portrait.html img="actors-post.png" caption = "Figure 2.2-1 Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reporting Actors - Example 1" %}

{% include img-portrait.html img="actors-request.png" caption = "Figure 2.2-2 Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reporting Actors - Example 2" %}


### $cc-gaps Operation and Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report

The risk adjustment coding gap reports are generated by a Server’s back end systems such as legacy system, FHIR server, and risk adjustment engine. The [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report], a profile of the [MeasureReport] resource, provides a standardized representation to construct these reports. The [$cc-gaps] operation defined in this implementation guide can be used by a Client to request risk adjustment coding gap reports of applicable risk adjustment models for one or more patients (a Group) from the Server.

#### $cc-gaps Operation
The [$cc-gaps] operation requires three input (IN) parameters: `subject`, `periodStart`, and `periodEnd`. The `subject` parameter references either a single patient or a group of patients (as specified in the [Patient Group] profile). The term clinical evaluation period refers to the time period during which the risk adjusting encounters could be conducted and documented with expectations of submissions for risk adjustment purposes. The `periodStart` and `periodEnd` parameters are the start and end dates of the clinical evaluation period.

If the `subject` is valid, the dates provided in `periodStart` and `periodEnd` will then be evaluated for any overlaps against the clinical evaluation period (`MeasureReport.period.start` and `MeasureReport.period.end`) of risk adjustment coding gap reports available on the Server for that patient. The [$cc-gaps] operation returns a [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle] if matching risk adjustment coding gap reports were found for a patient. This bundle is a FHIR collection bundle, which must contain a patient ([US Core Patient](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU3.1.1/StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html)) entry and zero or more entries of risk adjustment coding gap reports ([Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report]). All risk adjustment coding gap reports contained in a [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle] must be for the same patient. The [$cc-gaps] operation also defines another output (OUT) parameter, `OperationOutcome`, to address scenarios when the `subject` provided is invalid. The $cc-gaps operation will always return one [Parameters](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/parameters.html) whether the `subject` is a single patient or a group of patients. Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle for a patient is in a `Parameters.parameter` element. A Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle contains the Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports for the same patient. For example, if a Group has 10 valid patients, then a Parameters will contain 10 `Parameters.parameter` elements, with each `Parameters.parameter` for a unique patient. Detailed documentation and conformance statements are listed on the page for [$cc-gaps].

An example workflow of a Client calls the [$cc-gaps] operation to request risk adjustment coding gap reports for a single patient is shown below in Figure 3-1.

{% include img-portrait.html img="risk-adjustment-coding-gap-report-single-patient.png" caption = "Figure 3-1 Report Operation Workflow for a Single Patient" %}

#### Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report
The [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] is used to represent coding gap report for a single patient and a version specific risk adjustment model. The required `MeasureReport.subject` references [US Core Patient](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU3.1.1/StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html) and the required `MeasureReport.measure` element references the [Risk Adjustment Model Measure]. The [Risk Adjustment Model Measure] profile specifies risk adjustment model information, which requires both a model identifier and a version. If the Server's risk adjustment engine runs multiple risk adjustment models including different versions of the same model, then there will be multiple risk adjustment coding gap reports for a patient. For example, if a risk adjustment engine runs reports using CMS-HCC V25, CMS-HCC V24, and Rx-HCC V5, then there will be three separate risk adjustment coding gap reports for the patient, each for a version specific risk adjustment model.

The [MeasureReport] resource has zero to many `group` elements. Each `group` element contains information for a Condition Category (CC), therefore, each MeasureReport may contain multiple Condition Category (CC) codes. The `group.code` is used to represent the actual code for a Condition Category (CC), such as HCC 18 (Diabetes with No Complication). The [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] profile added several extensions to the MeasureReport resource’s `group` element to provide additional information about a Condition Category (CC), which includes:
 - the suspect type for a Condition Category (CC) coding gap that is either historic, suspected, or unsuspected;
 - the evidence status of a Condition Category (CC) coding gap that is either closed-gap, open-gap, or pending;
 - the evidence status date indicating when the evidence status was changed to either closed-gap, open-gap, or pending; and
 - the hierarchical status indicating whether hierarchies were applied to a Condition Category (CC), and if applied, whether the Condition Category (CC) is superseded. The status can be either applied-superseded, applied-not-superseded, not-applied, or not-applicable.

In addition, the [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] provides capability of sharing supporting evidence for a Condition Category (CC) through the use of the `MeasureReport.evaluatedResource` element. This supporting evidence may include resources for data such as encounters, lab results, medications, and procedures, and the `evaluatedResource` shall reference the appropriate US Core profile. The extension [ra-groupReference](StructureDefinition-ra-groupReference.html) added to the `evaluatedResource` element enables tying a specific supporting evidence to a Condition Category (CC). This is accomplished by setting the extension’s `valueString` to be the same value of the `MeasureGroup.group.id` of the Condition Category (CC) to establish the association between a supporting evidence and one or more Condition Categories.  

### Example Risk Adjustment Coding Gaps Report

Figure 3-2 is an example risk adjustment coding gap report. The Client calls the [$cc-gaps] operation for patient Eve Everywoman (`subject`) and for a clinical evaluation period from January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021 (`periodStart` and `periodEnd`). The Server receives the request and finds a matching risk adjustment coding gap report for Eve Everywoman that has a clinical evaluation period of January 1, 2021 to September 30, 2021, which overlaps the `periodStart` and `periodEnd` dates provided in the [$cc-gaps] operation. This report was created by a backend risk adjustment engine on October 18th, 2021 using the risk adjustment model CMS-HCC V24. As shown in this example report, Eve Everywoman has five Hierarchical Condition Categories (HCCs). Three of the HCCs are historic diagnoses and two are suspected diagnoses. For example, one of the historic diagnoses is HCC 18 (Diabetes with no Complications). The status of this coding gap is shown as closed and the evidence status date is April 1, 2021. The supporting evidence field shows the clinical data that was used to close the coding gap HCC 18.

{% include img-portrait.html img="report-risk-adjustment.png" caption = "Figure 3-2 Example Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report" %}

### Resources and Profiles

The following resources and their profiles specified in this implementation guide are used to support sharing risk adjustment coding gap reports from Server to Client:

|Resource Type|Profile Name|Link to Profile|
|---|---|---|
|Bundle|Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle Profile|[Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Bundle]|
|Group|Patient Group Profile|[Patient Group]|
|MeasureReport|Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Profile|[Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report]|
|Measure|Risk Adjustment Model Measure Profile|[Risk Adjustment Model Measure]|

Figure 3-3 provides a graphical view of how these resources are related to the example report above. The main resource is the [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] profile. This coding gap report references a [Risk Adjustment Model Measure], which indicates CMS-HCC V24 is the risk adjustment model this report is based on. The coding gap report also references the Patient ([US Core Patient](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU3.1.1/StructureDefinition-us-core-patient.html)) as well as the Organization ([US Core Organization](http://hl7.org/fhir/us/core/STU3.1.1/StructureDefinition-us-core-organization.html)) that generated the report. The graph shows three groups within a [Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report] using three example HCCs from Figure 3-2 to illustrate each `group` corresponds to an HCC including its attributes.

{% include img-portrait.html img="report-risk-adjustment-resource-graph.png" caption = "Figure 3-3 Resource Graph for Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report" %}

### Usage

#### Request Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report

`GET [base]/MeasureReport/$cc-gaps`

{% include examplebutton.html example="get-risk-adjustment-coding-gap-report-usage-example" b_title = "Click Here To See Example GET Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report" %}


#### Bulk data request for Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Reports  

If Clients are requesting risk adjustment coding gap reports for many patients, they may consider using the FHIR [Asynchronous Request Patterns] for the Bulk Data exchange operation.

`GET [base]/MeasureReport/$cc-gaps`

{% include examplebutton.html example="get-risk-adjustment-coding-gaps-report-usage-bulk-example" b_title = "Click Here To See Example GET Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report Using Bulk Data" %}

Headers:
* `Prefer respond-async`
* `Accept application/fhir+json`

Note that both Prefer and Accept are required. **Prefer** specifies the response is immediate or asynchronous, which SHALL be set to *respond-async*. **Accept** specifies the format of the optional OperationOutcome response to the kick-off request. Any of the Serialization Format Representations are supported. See the base FHIR specification [Asynchronous Request Patterns] for details.

Query Parameters:
* `_outputFormat (string, optional, defaults to application/fhir+ndjson)`

Currently, only *application/fhir+ndjson* is supported.

#### Post Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report

`POST [base]/bundle`

{% include examplebutton.html example="post-risk-adjustment-coding-gap-report-usage-example" b_title = "Click Here To See Example POST Risk Adjustment Coding Gap Report" %}
